# Overview of word types
At the top level, Krestia words are classified into the following categories: nouns (including names and pronouns), associative nouns, records, verbs, modifiers, numbers, and structural words. Each word has a unique trait in its spelling to indicate its word type and each word type has a different set of inflections that alter the functions of the words belonging to it in a sentence.
## Nouns
In Krestia, nouns encompass not only tangible objects and intangible ideas (like they do in natural language), but also adjectives. As an example, the Krestia word for sweet, _memipe_, is literally translated as "a sweet one", so "a sweet apple" would be {{ gloss "lepa memipega" }}, which literally means "an apple that is a sweet one". Nouns are further divided into countable nouns and uncountable nouns.
### Countable nouns
Countable nouns are marked by their dictionary form's last syllable, which consists of a voiceless plosive, followed by a front vowel: pa, pe, pi, ta, te, ti, ka, ke, ki. They represent objects that are self-contained and enumerable, like people, trees, thoughts, etc. As the name suggests, countable nouns can have numbers attached to them, linked by the modifier [[sel]], as well as the singular modifier [[sil]] and the plural modifier [[vel]].
### Uncountable nouns
Uncountable nouns are also marked by their last syllable, which consists of a nasal consonant followed by a front vowel: ma, me, mi, na, ne, ni. They represent masses of objects, such as water and wood, or singleton objects, such as the sun and the sky. They are mostly similar to countable nouns in terms of inflections, but they cannot have quantities associated with them.
## Associative nouns
Associative nouns are very similar to nouns, but they represent concepts that often require being associated with something else; examples include body parts, family relationships, and relative positions (e.g. the top, bottom, vicinity of something). In sentences, they are generally attached to another standalone noun.
## Records
Records are also similar to nouns, but require one or more additional nouns attached to them. Unlike associative nouns, which have no restrictions on the associated noun, records often require nouns that come from a strict set of nouns, such as names, or numbers. They are used to represent quantities with units (such as metres, kilograms), or finite enumerable sets (such as months or days of the week).
## Verbs
Like in natural languages, verbs represent actions. Orthographically, verbs are marked by a final consonant in the dictionary form, and each verb has a valency (the number of arguments that it can take) of up to three, which decides the consonant that the word will end with. Furthermore, through a process called [[argument omission]], a verb may lose one or more of its argument slots and have a decreased valency, thereby also changing its final consonant.